---
author: acbbchris
categories:
- Friday Wrap-Up
comments: true
date: 2018-07-07T18:54:31Z
link: http://acbeerblog.ca/?p=28741
published: false
slug: friday-wrap-up-20170707
title: Friday Wrap-Up - 20170707
url: /2018/07/07/friday-wrap-up-20170707/
wordpress_id: 28741
---

Trailway Adore and new ones from this week



 	
  1. Our brand new Double IPA - Adore - debuts tomorrow (30th). Citra, Amarillo, Ella, El Dorado 🙏. Only 50 cases. Cans and draft at 11 am.


2) So pumped to release Seeing Ekuanot this week! This is another installment in our single hopped IPA "seeing" series. Ekuanot is a super interesting and flavourful hop with complexity that really makes this beer drink like it has multiple hop varieties in it. This one though was different from our any of our other hoppy brews in that about half of the dryhop was lupulin powder. Lupulin powder is concentrated lupulin separated from whole cone hops. The lupulin contains resins and aromatic and flavourful hop oils. The result is massive flavour and aroma without the vegetative and astringency that can be introduced when dryhopping at these rates with pellets or whole cone. Perhaps one of the most aromatic beers to come out of TW.
Cans available Wednesday at 5 pm. This was a 10 bbl batch and so therefore we will have only approximately 50 cases available. Find it at the tasting room in freddy only this week.



================

**Chris emailed: **Lunn's Mill SMaSH

==================

Heritage Citra:

Citra Session IPA is on tap!!

This 5% Session IPA uses just enough Canadian malted barley and specialty malt to give this beer the backbone it needs to carry the Citra hop flavour. This beer comes in at 42 IBU with generous, but not overwhelming, additions of Citra hop in the boil and after fermentation. Typically this beer is described as having aromas and flavours of grapefruit, melon, gooseberry, passion fruit and lychee.



======================

**Chris emailed: **MatrimoiAle: receipt tweaked slightly, waiting on Wendy. Gillian's wedding is this weekend.

5.2% ABV, 21 IBUs

===================

**Chris emailed: **Saltbox Rhubarb Berliner Weiss, July 9th ish. Also the return of Loyalist ESB

**response: **The loyalist is 5.9% ABV with 38 IBU's, it should be ready to start kegging by Saturday. The Rhubarb Berliner Weisse is 4.8% ABV, 11 IBU's, was soured with rhubarb and lacto fermentation, and should be ready sometime early next week.

=============================================

**Chris emailed: **Boxing Rock Barrel-Aged Bottles: Rum Barrel Battery Rock and U-889. Plus some Trikai's still here.

====================

**Chris emailed/FB messaged/asked about brewing: **Gahan House Port City is now hiring: http://mhgpei.com/join-us/

==============

Horton Ridge Malt and Grain Co. **check which other beers are on the go. Small batch, rotate frequently.**
1 hr ·
We are open today, and have a new beer coming on tap and in growlers! The Island Wheat, a refreshing wheat beer, lightly hopped with Mosaic and Azacca. A fantastic beer to enjoy with the wonderful weather that is upcoming!

==================

902 BrewCast with Tide & Boar Brewing. On the road to the South Shore to visit Boxing Rock and FirkinStein, look for those episodes to drop this month.

=====

NSLC Year-end results. **Aaron is writing this one up for release June 26, right? ;)**

First Town Craft Beer Festival. **Time to mention on the blog, that they're calling for breweries? Or wait till after Big Axe (they'd mentioned that in their email)**

==============

EVENTS:

Stillwell welcomes Liquid Riot back this weekend, with events at both the Mothership and Beergarden on Friday and Saturday, respectively.

Keep an eye out for the other events they'll be hosting in the next couple of month, including a tap takeover by Vankleek Hill, Ontario's, [Beau's All Natural](https://beaus.ca/) on August 10th, with [Le Trou du Diable](https://troududiable.com/) from Shawinagan and an two-day epic Belgianfest, dates of those are still TBD. Rest assured we'll be keeping you informed of all of the details as soon as we know!

=============

July 8th: Boxing Rock Birthday Party

Our birthday party schedule:
1pm-3pm: Drop in axe throwing ($15) with Birthday boy Adam!
1:30pm-3:30pm: Finest Kind BBQ and corn boil!
3pm: Shelburne's Tall Ship beer name announced!
3pm: CAKE!!
Washer toss and beer pong, 2 for 1 tours, and music throughout the day!

'https://www.facebook.com/events/284885098649977

===========

July 8th: Propeller Block Party

=================

July 12: https://www.facebook.com/events/1926246957657455/

Hosted by: Ladies Beer Connection Fredericton

On Wednesday, July 12th from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm, join us for a big celebration at the King Street Ale House - we're 6 months old! We like just about any excuse to celebrate, and celebrate we will. We are gathering in full force at the Ale House, where the cost will be $22.50 plus tax and will include 10 4 oz samples including everything they have on tap! AND if you choose to have more samples, they will be $2 for each additional 4 oz sample you'd like!

Please RSVP to freddyladiesbeerconnection@gmail.com to secure your spot!

We are beyond excited to have this taster night, and we can't wait to see you there! Thank you so much for continuing to make our Wednesdays so much more fun!

====================

July 13th, 8-10PM: Inaugural Whycocomagh Craft Beer Festival

Whycocomagh Waterfront Centre, 9650 NS-105, Whycocomagh, NS B0E 3M0, Canada

http://www.hogoma.ca/events/craft-beer-festival/

Beer from:
Big Spruce
Boxing Rock
Gahan House Halifax
Garrison
Tatamagouche

Food from:
Crusin' Cuisine
Laura's Pretzels
Little Asia
Sam's Point Oysters

Live Music

Your $20 entry (pay at the door) gets you ten 4oz samples and a souvenir glass. More 4oz samples can be purchased for $1 each.

=================================

August 6,7,8: Fredericton Spirited Dash, Wine Run, Beer Run

https://raceroster.com/series/2017/9865/nb-day-running-weekend

Help celebrate New Brunswick Day all weekend by running around Fredericton! Hosted by the Fredericton Craft Beer Festival, three runs are being held: the Sprited Dash on Saturday, Wine Run on Sunday, and Beer Run on Monday.

Fredericton Spirited Dash, Aug 5th 2017
1Mile followed by cocktail sampling.

Fredericton Wine Run, August 6th 2017
5km or 5 Miler followed by wine sampling.

Fredericton Beer Run, August 7th 2017
4, 6, & 12 Km run followed by great Craft Beer, Cider and Mead sampling.

Sign up for all three and receive a special gift plus a free carb-loading pasta meal after the Fredericton Spirited Dash Saturday night.

For those not willing to run for their beer, tickets are available for the post-run Beer, Cider, and Mead sampling Monday.

https://www.eventbrite.ca/e/fredericton-beer-run-tickets-33889244643

============================
--------------------

For next time?

===========================

Future: Unfiltered Eph Bomb. Sour Motherfucker on Escarpment _Brett Lambicus_ (Chris thinks), plus more cherries.

Unfiltered RSMA is back. All-Mosaic Double IPA.

===================

Nfld notes:

Split Rock, double check that we've contacted them. **Chris did in March, and we wrote it up. sending Qs this week**

Dildo: Roger and Angie are brother-sister, married to Debbie and Robert, respectively. Will be hiring a brewer.

==============================

- A slight correction to <a href="http://acbeerblog.ca/2017/06/16/friday-wrap-up-20170616/">June 16th</a>'s call for beer for the CCNB: we had the incorrect email address, so be sure to contact <a href="mailto:jared.christensen@ccnb.ca">Jared Christensen</a> for details on the <strong>free</strong> beer testing. We now have the primer sent out to brewers looking for more information, <a href="http://acbeerblog.ca/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/NRC-CCNB-Beer-Testing.pdf">check it out here</a>.

=====================

**Just here to remind Chris: **NOW here’s what the coffee itself looks like - from the Kayanza province of Burundi, the bean has natural notes of caramel, candy apple, lemongrass, and is faintly floral. The Calvados foeder at 2 Crows (which is sooooooo strong) blesses the beans with some additional toffee and black cherry undertones, and a noticeable (but not overpowering) boozy kick. It’s more prominent on the nose than on the flavour, but still very present. It’s definitely meant to be a specialty thing. Brew it as a single cup, and with care - chemex, v60, aeropress, espresso, cold brew, syphon. I’m always happy to offer advice on brew methods to anybody that might need assistance on making this coffee taste its’ very best.

Another little thing to note is that we’ve got some things planned for this coffee with Tidehouse Brewing - something that will be available soon-ish, and another even more special thing that you’ll have to wait for (it will be worth it). Keep eyes peeled.

=====

Port Rexton Collab with BC brewery...

===================

Tatamagouche: American Brett? **Matt said it's OK to leave for full release**

============

Follow up with AJ re: Backstage? **Aaron emailed him on Thursday, June 15.**
